A critical, yet often overlooked, component of a safety program is incident reporting.
To truly prevent accidents, we must learn from them.
This includes not just incidents that cause injury, but also 'near misses.' A near miss is an event that could
have caused harm but, by sheer luck, did not.
For example, if a faulty tool gives someone a mild shock but doesn't cause an injury, that is a near
miss.
Reporting this is just as important as reporting an actual injury, because it's a warning sign.
It reveals a hazard that needs to be fixed before it leads to a more serious outcome.
The goal of reporting is not to place blame, but to identify the root cause of the problem.
Was it faulty equipment?
A gap in a procedure?
A need for more training?
By reporting every incident and near miss, you provide valuable data that helps the entire organization improve.
This data allows safety managers to identify trends.
For instance, if multiple near misses are reported involving the same type of equipment, it signals a clear need to
inspect or replace that equipment.
A good incident report is clear, factual, and objective.
It should document exactly what happened, where and when it occurred, and who was involved.
It's a snapshot of the event that allows for a thorough investigation into the 'why.' Remember, your report could be
the key to preventing a future tragedy.
A culture of transparent reporting is a hallmark of a safe workplace.